
Its a good way of testing for intellectual disabilities.
I’d just like to add that they can be used to rule out* intellectual disability as well, which is just as important for differential diagnosis.

Moreover, IQ tests are valuable for other purposes as well. Using IQ, we are able to measure, quantify, and compare cognitive strengths and weaknesses of individuals as they relate to a population norm, and the implications for this are vast. For example, results can be used to help clinicians understand how different conditions might be affecting cognitive functions at a given time. For example, after a brain injury or in cases of suspected neurological conditions, IQ tests can help pinpoint which areas of cognition have been impacted and how that may influence the course of the condition. A person might perform well in verbal comprehension but struggle significantly with working memory, and this could indicate specific areas of the brain that might have been affected (temporal lobe, Broca’s area, Wernicke’s area, prefrontal cortex, etc.), effectively informing the treatment they will receive.

More broadly, IQ tests are useful because they operationalize the concept of intelligence so that it can be investigated through research. Sure, it’s by no means a perfect 1:1 ratio of what we as a society deem to be intelligence, especially since intelligence is loosely defined apart from global cognitive capacity (there are limitations and drawbacks to everything), but it works well enough to study the concept researcher’s are interested in. There will always be some margin of error, but that doesn’t change the fact that IQ has helped researchers understand the dimensions and nature of intelligence, its heritability, its relationship to other cognitive and emotional factors, and its predictive utility for things like academic and occupational success.

However, an important caveat to that is, just because it is a strong predictor of success, that does mean it will guarantee success. There are often other factors at play as well, like conscientiousness, motivation, resources at one’s disposal, etc. Additionally, IQ is not a way to quantify someone’s worth or overall superiority/inferiority, despite it getting misused that way. While it provides a method to measure general cognitive abilities that western society deems the most integral, it is not all-encompassing. There are many cultural restraints as well as universal application difficulties. Things like creativity, working memory other than auditory, subcultural values, motivation and perseverance, adaptability, and social-emotional intelligence are not measured, and it’s hard to say our tests work for everyone when they aren’t culturally objective (there’s a question on the WAIS about American history, for example).