 Coming out soon, we're going to be releasing Dr. Kay's guides to mental health. The guides are organized into three modules. So the depression module is designed for people to understand, like, how depression works, how I think about depression. The anxiety module is for people who are interested in learning more about anxiety, like not just from a clinical perspective, but also understanding from a mental perspective how anxiety works in the mind, like where do anxious thoughts come from? How do they propagate, things like that? You know, something that I'm super excited about is also the meditation module. So for those of you who are curious about understanding, you know, my approach to meditation, like what are the different, it's, there's a lot of theoretical understanding, as well as, you know, 20 practices or more. So if you guys are interested in that, you know, go ahead and check out the guides. So, oh shit, do I have to summarize now. Okay, what we're talking about is dopamine detox. Okay? We're talking about like the actual neuroscience of a dopamine detox. And we're about to dive into how to do it. So let me give you guys a quick summary. So we started off by looking at like, you know, other people who talk about dopamine detox on the internet and like really don't, I don't think there's a whole lot of good clinical or neuroscientific information there. We went over to like what the dopamine reward circuits are, what they look like, and how messing with the dopaminergic parts of our brain creates a particular presentation of like dopamine tolerance. That presentation is characterized by three things. So as a clinician, the three things that I look for when I'm thinking about recommending a dopamine detox are, number one, you are compelled towards a behavior that you don't enjoy. Okay? Number two, there is a war in your brain between the things that you know you should be doing, but you can't't what you should do always loses to like this impulsive like behavioral like fast food kind of enjoyment sort of thing so I should be working on my resume but I'm'm just going to cue for a game of Valerent or League or whatever. Okay? Third thing is that activities that seem pleasurable to other people don't seem to be as enjoyable to you. So if you kind of check those three boxes and you have a constant stream of like dopaminergic activity like video games or social media, Reddit, or whatever, then you may be right for dopamine detox. Okay? Now we're gonna get to the actual, okay, so Dr. Kay, how do you dopamine detox? Remember that the first thing is that what we want to do is give our brain a chance to down-regulate the receptors. So what we're talking about is probably a two-week minimum of dopamine detox. Okay, otherwise your receptors aren't gonna doubt like they're not gonna upregulate the way that they should. That's the first thing. The second thing to understand is that the main problem with the dopamine detox is boredom. So what I want y'all to mentally prepare yourselves for is that the way that your dopamine circuitry is wired, things that should feel pleasurable are not going to feel pleasurable. So what you're going to deal with is two weeks of boredom. That's the raid boss, okay? It's not about like withdrawal, it's not about like, you know, sweats or like, you're just gonna be bored. So you need to be mentally prepared that what you're gonna be fighting against is boredom, okay? Next thing to consider is that what we want to really try to do is minimize our dopaminergic activity. And what I mean by dopaminergic activity, it doesn't mean that you actually can't have fun. What I want you all to minimize is that compulsive behavior that you don't actually enjoy. So video games, social media, content aggregation, so steer clear of like Reddit, YouTube, things like that. Some things that involve like technology are totally fine. Like so for example, if you want to watch a movie, even watch one movie every day, I think that's totally fine. Time limited, not like constant scrolling stuff, time limited enjoyable activities, even involving technology, are completely fine. You want to steer clear the stuff that your brain veges out on, so don't binge watch a TV show. No vaging out while you're watching like Netflix or Amazon Prime or something like that. No binge watching anime. You want to watch like a Naruto movie, like go for it. It's not going to be fun either way, whether your dopamine system is messed up or not. Right? So you can actually watch like a movie, like by all means, go for it. No big deal. So dopamine detox, two weeks. Main thing that you're going to have to deal with is boredom. You want to cut out dopaminergic activities. So these are like the dirty, like the mnuggets of dopamine that you do, right? So like content aggregation, like video games, even stuff like Twitch, like discrete technological activities that are highly enjoyable and like a short, limited time span are actually fine. If you want to watch one movie a day, go for it. Okay? So the other thing that I would recommend, so like the way that you're gonna do this successfully, so since boredom is your enemy, like planning out your day is gonna be a huge part of it, okay? Books, audio books, doing stuff in nature, cleaning, cooking, adopt skills, like a skills learning program or something like that. Those kinds of things are going to be your bastion. So what I would say is like, you know, on a, let's say you want to start on the weekend. So Friday evening, what you're going to do is grocery shopping and you're going to plan out your meals for like Saturday and Sunday. You're going to plan out, okay, like, this is what I'm going to do in the morning, this is what I'm going to do in the afternoon, this is what I'm gonna do in the afternoon. Get yourself like a good audiobook. Okay, so like good audio books are gonna be really, really important for like relatively boring activities. So while you're cleaning your kitchen like listen to an audio book, find a good podcast. You want to be like doing stuff and the more that you pack your day, the better off it's going to be in terms of like, you know, not relapsing. Because remember that when you relapse, what's going to happen is your mind is going to be bored and before you realize it, you're going to pick up your phone and you're just going to be like on Twitch or whatever or YouTube or whatever. Okay. So social activities are also really good. So like I think board game night totally fine like by all means get together with a few of your buddies, play some terraforming Mars, like play D&D, like go for it, like a good six, eight hour session of D&D with people ideally in person, because you got to be careful about computers because it's really easy to open up tabs when you get bored and things like that. So I'd see you're clear of that. But like it's totally fine to do fun activities. I think if you want to do something like go camping, like that's the perfect time to do a dopamine detox. Because you got to do things like pitching your tent and like you know making your food and then like you know like changing and like camping like has stuff involved. So spending time in nature going hiking, those are fantastic opportunities to do dopamine detoxes. So if you guys are doing something like going on a ski trip or going on vacation, this is a good opportunity for you to like take stuff off of your phone, right? Like remove Reddit from your phone, remove all that stuff. If you have something like a tablet, by all means download like three movies over the course of a week, and that's like what you're going to watch, but you're not going to like stream random crap. Okay? So next thing to remember is that unstructured time is the primary source of failure in dopamine detox. When your mind is bored and you don't have something planned, it's way too easy to dig into the easy dopamine McNugget, all right? The McDopamine. So next thing to kind of think about is that if you guys are running into trouble I recommend doing it with friends. Now you don't have to do this necessarily with in-person friends, but I'd find like two or three people, like, you know, maybe like sometimes people will like get together with people on discord and things like that where you know you'll kind of decide okay we're gonna do dopamine detox from you know June 9th to June 20th okay or June 22nd, whatever. And then people kind of plan out, okay, what's your plan? Like, let's, let's, let's, like, read a book together. Let's, like, you know, meet every day on discord. Like, we'll, we'll check in about how things are going, like, you know, you guys can help each other out a little bit. And yeah, that's it. So last kind of tip is remember, the more accessible the dopaminergic activities are, the easier it is going to be to relapse. So what you want to do, and this is kind of interesting, so if you look at the research, a lot of relapses are not planned out. They're impulse decisions. So if you look at alcohol relapses, for example, like I've been sober for a year, I go to a kid's birthday party. My kids, like my kids' friends birthday party. My kids' friend's dad is there and he's like, hey, do you want to drink? And it's like an impulsive decision. It's like, sure. Everyone else is having a beer, like, why can't I have a beer too? And then it's like an impulsive decision. It's like, sure, everyone else is having a beer, like, why can't I have a beer too? And then it's like, boom, relapse. Then I've had 10, and I'm vomiting, and whatever. So what you want to do is increase the activation energy and make things less accessible. So uninstalled video games and then like at least you have that amount of time. So let's say let I uninstall everything and then I like start reinstalling it when I relapse. But then I've got like a 15, 30 minute window where I can still like catch myself, right? I can get out of the house, I can go for a walk, I can even cancel the installation. So you want to give yourself time. And so like uninstall the crap, uninstall the dopaminergic activities, log out of your Netflix account, log out of your Reddit account. Like if you want to, you can even use websites that block things like Reddit and stuff like that. Go for it or tools. And so that's kind of a dopamine detox. So two weeks, highly structured activity, plan what you're gonna do, cooking, cleaning, traveling, nature, books, audio books, some kind of creative work if you want to, learn a skill, and kind of tell yourself, okay, at the end of two weeks, I could have learned how to XXX, right? Like whatever you want to do, X, Y, Z. I could have learned how to speak a hundred words of Spanish in two weeks. And so work on those goals, use people's help, and that's kind of how you do a dopamine detox.