 Could a personal coach help me get back on track at school? I'm not sure what scope of issues personal coaches cover, but would they be able to help me get back on track at school? I desperately want to drop out of my university program, however this isn't really an option available to me at the moment. I keep missing deadlines for assignments, struggle to keep up with studying, and generally lack any motivation to make an effort towards school. Since I can't drop out, I figure the next best thing would be to try to get myself organized and out of this funk. I have ADHD and frequently feel like I need someone to come and babysit me to make sure I don't lie in bed all day. Okay? I need someone to care about the happenings in my life for me because it feels like I sure is fork don't. I also feel unbelievably childish in regards to this matter. I feel like I should be able to just suck it up and get it done. It is also possible that I am burnt out at this point in time. I don't feel like a living person. That is to say that I don't feel like I play an active role in my life just along for the ride. My expectation or assumption would be that a coach would give me the tools to help me stay organized and improve my work, school, life balance regardless of motivation. Help me help myself in becoming a functioning human being instead of a sad sack who lays in bed all day feeling sorry for themselves. As much as I would love to hire a coach to pester me every week, make sure I'm handing in my assignments on time, and make sure that I'm focused on my schoolwork every minute of the day instead of faffing about it. I assume getting a coach to teach me how to achieve these goals, independent of their pestering would be much more beneficial for me. Does it sound like something a coach could help me work through? So the answer is absolutely yes. This is something that a coach can help you work through. But this statement is absolutely wrong. My expectation assumption would be that a coach would give me tools to help me stay organized. Let's say I'm this person's coach, so this is like really important to understand about coaching, so a lot of people will come in to coaching and say I have this goal, here is my problem, here is what I need from you, okay? My problem is that I am unmotivated and I feel like I'm just existing in life. Okay? So like if you guys have this problem where like you're in a funk and you think that like you just need to get out of the funk and you have no motivation and you think that you need some kind of like organizational help to fix the problem, to overcome your motivation, and act regardless of motivation. That's like, that's a very dangerous way of thinking, right? So like, let's think about what kind of tools could a coach give you. They could give you like a calendar. Ooh, cool. Like, let's open up a calendar and like, let's like, let's make a timetable. Like, let's figure out what are you going to do? 8 a.m. every day you're going to wake up. You're going to like meal prep on Sundays, like you're going to do this, you're going to do this, you're going to do this, we're going to organize your life, you're going to check in with me once a week, and when I check in with you, I'm going to like hold you accountable because if you didn't do any of those things like, we'll talk about how you didn't do any of those things, bro, because a week has gone by and you didn't wake up at all, and you didn't study at all. That's what people want from coaching, right? They want to go to a coach and they say, like, oh, if I go to a coach, like I'm basically outsourcing the effort. They're going to give me some kind of like organizational tip or some kind of tool, some kind of magic tool that with this tool, you don't even have to overcome your motivational problems, right? It's almost like a late night like, you know, advertisement for like some special thing. With this special magic bullet, you don't even need motivation. You're going to be successful without motivation. All you need is this five-star planner, right? You need this. We have a very revolutionary, patented planning organizational system that has been proven clinically to work. Four out of five dentists agree this is the right way to plan your life. It worked for the dentist, so it'll work for you. So people come in and they say like, oh, coaching will help me this, right? I need someone to keep me accountable. But here's the problem. You're like, you're not living life, you're existing, right? You're just existing. You have no motivation. You're in a funk. You also, like here's the cycle, like have ADHD. I don't know if that's treated or not but motivational problems by the way are like a big symptom of ADHD okay. So you've got ADHD you go to college you start to fall into a funk as you fall a funk, you start to like feel bad about yourself. You start to lose motivation. As you lose motivation, something interesting happens in your brain. Like when you're not motivated to do something, it kind of like calculates like the success likelihood at being as being low and it like further dampens your motivation. You fall into this cycle. Like I'm not motivated, I fell behind, therefore I'm an idiot. The more that your brain thinks you're an idiot, the more its calculation about motivation is going to go downhill. Because your brain is smart, right? So it like thinks about things this way. It says, okay, like, what's the likelihood that I will succeed? If the likelihood that I will succeed is low, I'm not going to bother. Right? Because your brain is pretty smart. It's not, it's evolved to bother. Because your brain is pretty smart. It's evolved to be efficient with its resources. That's like, it's how we work, right? We learn how to be efficient with our resources. And if you think that you are not capable of succeeding, then the amount of effort you would need to succeed is going to feel too high and you won't even bother and it'll like crap out your motivation. You'll feel burnt out. So can a coach help you with this? Absolutely. But the first thing that you need to understand is that people will come to coaching and they'll be like, give me a solution. And give me a tip, give me a trick, give me a life hack. Because this is what our brain has been conditioned to do, right? Because you have like all these YouTube ads and blogs and things like that that are sort of like, oh, like just do this one thing and like you will make $100,000 a day. Like I did it, look at my car, look at like this place that I'm filming in that I rented using like I mortgaged my house to rent out this penthouse apartment so it has a really cool view and like I'm going to look slick and it's going  gonna be great and I'm gonna brag about how much money I made and all you need to do is give me your money and then you will have the secrets you'll be able to do it too you can do it too I know I have faith in you and all you have to do it too. You can do it too. I know I have faith in you. And all you have to do is give me the money. You don't have to change anything about yourself. Heaven forbid you have to change yourself. I'm like all you need is this thing. Like you just need this thing and everything is going to be great So people come into coaching wanting a magic bullet, but like what the coaches can they help you? Absolutely, but what they're going to help you with it has nothing to do with like giving you an organizational plan. You'll get there, by the way, but not at the beginning. Because here's the thing, like, what do you all think this person is going to do if someone gives them an organizational plan. So I can't figure out how to, you know, I think the next best thing would be to get myself organized and out of this funk. Like this is the problem. You've got to get out of this funk. Like this is the problem, you've got to get out of the funk, right? I feel like I should be able to just suck it up and get it done. So this is like a sign that you're not being compassionate towards yourself, right? You're blaming yourself for your struggles. As long as like, so now I want you to think about what you're doing here, okay? So like, you're trying to do something and what is the voice in your head telling you? It's telling you that you're an idiot. Like you should be able to suck it up. What's wrong with you, dumbass? Right? Oh, like you're such a child. You're supposed to be an adult. You're in college, but you're acting like a teenager. Or a seven-year-old. You should be able to do it So as long as your mind is like mentally beating you up like it's gonna tank your motivation. Do you guys see that? And then what happens is you kind of become a zombie. You're just like, you're not able to play an active role because your mind is telling you, don't bother, don't bother. And then you need to help stay organized regardless of motivation. No, man. Like what you need is motivation to get organized I can organize I can show up at your house and I can like organize all of your stuff and I can give you five different colored folders for all of your classes. I can set up your Google calendar for you and that'll help a little bit. But the key thing is that you have to unlock your motivation. So help me, help myself becoming a functioning human being instead of a sad sack who lays in bed all day feeling sorry for themselves. How do you think that you are ever going to be successful if this is your problem? If you're a sad sack who weighs in bed all day feeling sorry for yourself, that's the first thing that needs to change. So if you look at people who are motivated versus people who are not motivated, like what's the big difference? It's not organization. It's not whatever the dude on the internet is selling you. The big difference is like, I don't know, like thisthis sounds really simple to me, but, you know, I'm going to say it. So you think about like, 10 people, like, look at 10 people who are highly, highly motivated and are crushing it at life. You go ask them, how do you feel about themselves? I can almost guarantee you that not a single one is going to be like, I feel like I'm a waste of space and I'm existing and I'm a sad sack. Right? That's not what they're going to say. That's what needs to change. And coaching can help you with that. Right? So here's what a coach is going to do. They're going to model positive self-talk. Right? So like the tricky thing is once you learn how to talk to yourself that way, it's like, GG. And then people are wondering, like, how do I learn self-talk? So like you've conditioned, your brain has been conditioned to say negative things about you. And so then that's gonna be kind of weird because like the coach is gonna be empathic. Therapists do this too, okay? We do it, I think, at least we trained to do it far very intentionally. But, so like, you know, as they start to like express empathy towards you like your brain is going to be like oh That's kind of interesting and then over time when I coach people What tends to happen is like they'll say like I knew you were going to say that I knew you were going to say to happen is they'll say like, I knew you were gonna say that. I knew you were gonna say that, right? So they learn, like you as the client, will learn what your coach is doing. You'll like learn how to predict it. You learn how to say what they're gonna say. And then you're gonna start changing the way that you talk to say what they're going to say. And then you're going to start changing the way that you talk to yourself. Because here's the thing. If you just think about this for a second, where does self-respect come from? People will sometimes ask the question, how do I learn self-respect? So let's just think about this. Where does a lack of self-respect come from? Are we born with a lack of self-respect? Like, no, of course not. So we learn to respect ourselves through the way that we're treated, and we also learn to disrespect ourselves through the way that we're treated. If we're emotionally abused, that person is going to beat themselves up too. If we're emotionally like loved, then we're going to like learn how to love ourselves. So how do you learn self-respect? I know this is kind of bizarre. You learn it from other people. Literally. Right? So how do you learn self-respect? You get respected by other people and you're like, oh wow, like, that's pretty cool. Like, I deserve respect. That's neat. And once you learn that from other people, then you can kind of like, you know, change your own thinking. There's even research that supports this. So there's some evidence that, for example, 50% of people with borderline personality disorder will be in remission or no longer meet criteria for a diagnosis if they are in a stable relationship for two years. Just think about that for a second with no treatment. Research is not huge sample sizes, but there does appear to be evidence that like a lot of people with borderline personality disorder can actually get better in life if they engage in stable relationships. For an extended period of time. It's not one year, it's not 18 months. So for two years, they need a source of someone who's stable. And remember that the number's also 50%, so like that only works for half of people. But I think it illustrates or reinforces this point that even you can have like a personality disorder and being treated in a particular way consistently over time can change the way that your brain works. So how do you learn self-respect from other people? And if you're struggling with motivation it's not about getting organized because your mind is like oh like, like, I don't want to change anything in here. Like, I just need to find some external solution out there. And if I can find that external solution, then, like, it's easy, like, done. I don't have to, like, stop being motivated. Yeah, I can just do this thing and it'll fix everything. No, it's going to require hard work and most of that work is going to be internal. Self-growth and putting your life together is not like an external thing. It's an internal thing. At least in my opinion, it starts internally. So by all means, you know, work with a coach if that appeals to you. The other thing is like, you know, I think group coaching is really good for this because in group coaching, when you're co- when you have low self-esteem and your coach is nice to you, there's going to be a thought in the back of your mind that's going to say to you, like, it's their job to be nice to you. You guys get that's going to say to you like, it's their job to be nice to you. You guys get that? So it's completely different when you're in group coaching, because when you earn the respect and they will treat you with compassion and empathy, right? So we'll train them out to do that. They'll like learn how to be active listeners and like empathic as well as authentic. So we don't want them to be polite. We want to we want to train all everyone in group to be authentic and compassionate not polite so they're going to be like honest with you but they're going to temper that honesty with compassion because honesty without compassion just turns you into an asshole. I don't know if you guys like know anyone. He's like, oh yeah, like I'm gonna speak my truth and like they can't handle it like because their feelings like screw their feelings like I'm'm going to be, like truth is the greatest ideal. So in the Indian system, in the yogic system of like moral virtues, nonviolence is above truthfulness. So all truthfulness. So all truthfulness should be subject to nonviolence. So you should not be, it's better to be nonviolent and lie as opposed to be truthful and hurt someone. OK? So kind of going back to group, but the reason that group is cool is like when you earn the respect of those people like that voice isn't there that oh it's the coach's job to like treat me with respect they're getting paid to treat me with respect they're getting paid to like me that sinister thought is there in the back of your mind. And not all coaches like their clients, right? They may even be authentic with you. It may just be like, dude, I don't like you, but I'm going to try to make this work anyway. It's good. I think it's healthy. To be honest with clients, even if you dislike them. So we want our coaches to be authentic and compassionate too. And so coaching I think can absolutely help you, but if y'all are kind of stuck in this situation, I think the key thing to remember is that it's about fixing that internal motivation or fixing that internal sense of shame or that you're a failure or that like and stop chasing external solutions because as long as you I mean like I don't think a day planner is going to fix this. It may help, right? There may be like things, there's just certainly value to those kinds of things. Don't get me wrong. But I think that if you're, you know, if you're like a living zombie and you're not motivated, like that's what you need to fix. Like why are you burnt out? Where did your zest for life go? Right? Maybe you need to mourn a little bit that like it's boring. Maybe you need to change your measure. There are all kinds of things that you can do to affect your motivation. I don't know if this has been uploaded to YouTube, but you know a couple weeks ago we did a goal setting and motivation seminar and like, remember that intent is one-third of the equation. So working on that intent can be really helpful.